Adding blogpost about Sentiment Analysis on Encrypted Data with Homomorphic Encryption (#613)
huggingface/blog: sentiment-analysis-fhe.md

---
title: "Sentiment Analysis on Encrypted Data with Homomorphic Encryption"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/sentiment-analysis-fhe/thumbnail.png
---

# Sentiment Analysis on Encrypted Data with Homomorphic Encryption

<div class="blog-metadata">

>     <small>Published November 2, 2022.</small>

Author: done

    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/sentiment-analysis-fhe.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

> 

Reviewer: As in https://huggingface.co/blog/introducing-csearch, having a link to a colab to run the code at the top would be super useful

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately, we don't support colab because of the glibc version mismatch. We do support Kaggle notebook if it works for you?

Reviewer: Yeah that would be fine! Otherwise some section to briefly explain setup works as well

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/jfrery-zama">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://huggingface.co/avatars/81a6dd1b89dd988827a2eb944f233000.svg" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>jfrery-zama</code>
            <span class="fullname">Jordan Frery</span>

>         </div>

Author: done

    </a>
</div>

> It is well-known that sentiment analysis is a process of determining whether a piece of text is positive, negative, or neutral. However, this process typically requires access to the unencrypted text, which can pose privacy concerns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is well-known that a sentiment analysis model determines whether a text is positive, negative, or neutral. However, this process typically requires access to unencrypted text, which can pose privacy concerns.
```

> Homomorphic encryption is a type of encryption that allows for computation on encrypted data, without needing to decrypt it first. This makes it well-suited for applications like sentiment analysis.

Reviewer: > This makes it well-suited for applications like sentiment analysis.

It might be good to explain why this is well-suited for this application. E.g. I see it more obvious if you're talking about sensitive data or medical data, but sentiment analysis is very broad. An alternative here would be to say "like sentiment analysis in privacy-sensitive contexts"? WDYT?

Reviewer 2: I agree. I have rephrased. Thanks!

> Homomorphic encryption is a type of encryption that allows for computation on encrypted data, without needing to decrypt it first. This makes it well-suited for applications like sentiment analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Homomorphic encryption is a type of encryption that allows for computation on encrypted data without needing to decrypt it first. This makes it well-suited for applications like sentiment analysis.
```

> In this blog we use the [Concrete-ML library](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml) allowing data scientists to use machine learning model in the homomorphic encryption settings without any prior knowledge in cryptography. We provide a practical tutorial on how to use the library to build a sentiment analysis model on encrypted data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post uses the [Concrete-ML library](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml), allowing data scientists to use machine learning models in homomorphic encryption settings without any prior knowledge of cryptography. We provide a practical tutorial on how to use the library to build a sentiment analysis model on encrypted data.
```

> Our post will discuss:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The post covers:
```

- how to do the training
- how to use Concrete-ML to turn predictions into predictions over encrypted data
- how to [deploy to the cloud](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/getting-started/cloud) using a client/server protocol

Last but not least, we’ll finish with a complete demo over [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) to show this functionality in action.

## Using a public dataset

The dataset we use in this notebook can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/crowdflower/twitter-airline-sentiment).

To represent the text for sentiment analysis, we chose to use a transformer hidden representation as it yields high accuracy for the final model in a very efficient way. For a comparison of this representation set against a more common procedure like the TF-IDF approach, please see this [full notebook](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml/blob/release/0.4.x/use_case_examples/encrypted_sentiment_analysis/SentimentClassification.ipynb).

Alright, let’s first import a few requirements.

```python
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV
from sklearn.metrics import ConfusionMatrixDisplay
import pandas as pd

> from concrete.ml.sklearn import XGBClassifier

Reviewer: Actually this did not work for me in Colab 🤔

> from concrete.ml.sklearn import XGBClassifier

Reviewer 2: Yes we tried to support google colab but we are left with a mismatch of the glibc version that does not look easy to solve so we hope google colab will update the python version/kernel at some point.

> from concrete.ml.sklearn import XGBClassifier

Reviewer 2: > I think you should have
> 
> pip install concrete-ml
> 
> first

I added it when we mention the lib above.

from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

> import numpy

Reviewer: Should this be `import numpy as np`?

Reviewer 2: Yes I updated so that we take the same approach for both pandas and numpy. thanks!

> import time

Reviewer: This order of sorting looks slightly cleaner (using `isort`) 

```
import time

import numpy
import pandas as pd
from concrete.ml.sklearn import XGBClassifier
from sklearn.metrics import ConfusionMatrixDisplay
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV, train_test_split
```

Reviewer: Even better is to have the imports in the code block in which they are used, that's usually a nice approach for notebooks. E.g. the `train_test_split` would not be imported at the top but rather in the block where it's being used

Reviewer 2: Interesting. I was not aware of this practice. I have updated so that each import is in its proper cell.

```

Now we can open the dataset and visualize some statistics.

```python

> train = pd.read_csv('data/Tweets.csv')

Reviewer: This dataset has a https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/ license, not sure if that's an issue

> train = pd.read_csv('data/Tweets.csv')

Reviewer: This step requires users to download the csv from kaggle, upload it manually to colab or wherever they are, etc. That might create a barrier of entry to some users

Reviewer: I saw discussion above about using Pandas and loading the file, so up to you! I do think there will be a friction of asking users to go to a different platform to download a file, upload it again (if they use colab), and get the right path right. I think using `datasets` could be nice requiring minimal changes here

```python
from datasets import load_dataset

train = load_dataset("osanseviero/twitter-airline-sentiment")["train"].to_pandas()
train
```

(created with https://github.com/nateraw/huggingface-datasets-converter by @nateraw 🔥 )

Reviewer 2: Oh that indeed makes the access to the dataset much easier. Can I use `osanseviero/twitter-airline-sentiment` or should I upload it again?

Reviewer 2: I have used the dataset you created (which works perfectly). Let me know if I should create my own.

print(f'Proportion of negative examples: {round(neg_ratio * 100, 2)}%')
print(f'Proportion of neutral examples: {round(neutral_ratio * 100, 2)}%')
```

The output, then, looks like this:

```
Proportion of positive examples: 16.14%
Proportion of negative examples: 62.69%
Proportion of neutral examples: 21.17%
```

The ratio of positive and negative examples is rather similar, though we have significantly more negative examples. Let’s keep this in mind to select the final evaluation metric.

Now we can split our dataset into training and test sets. We will use a seed for this code to ensure it is perfectly reproducible.

```python
text_X_train, text_X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(text_X, y,
    test_size=0.1, random_state=42)
```

## Text representation using a transformer

[Transformers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformer_(machine_learning_model)) are neural networks often trained to predict the next words to appear in a text (this task is commonly called self-supervised learning). They can also be fine-tuned on some specific subtasks such that they specialize and get better results on a given problem.

> They are powerful tools for all kinds of Natural Language Processing tasks. In fact, we can leverage their representation for any text and feed it to a more FHE-friendly, machine learning model for classification. In this notebook we will use XGBoost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are powerful tools for all kinds of Natural Language Processing tasks. In fact, we can leverage their representation for any text and feed it to a more FHE-friendly machine-learning model for classification. In this notebook, we will use XGBoost.
```

We start by importing the requirements for transformers. Here, we use the popular library from [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co) to get a transformer quickly.

```python
import torch
import tqdm
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification, AutoTokenizer
device = "cuda:0" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
```

The model we have chosen is a BERT transformer, fine-tuned on the Stanford Sentiment Treebank dataset.

```python
# Load the tokenizer (converts text to tokens)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("cardiffnlp/twitter-roberta-base-sentiment-latest")

# Load the pre-trained model
transformer_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(
   "cardiffnlp/twitter-roberta-base-sentiment-latest"
)
```

This should download the model, which is now ready to be used.

> Now, using the hidden representation for some text can be a bit tricky at first, especially since we could tackle this with many different approaches. Below is the approach we chose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the hidden representation for some text can be tricky at first, mainly because we could tackle this with many different approaches. Below is the approach we chose.
```

> First, we tokenize the text. This means that we split the text into tokens, or a sequence of specific characters that can also be words, and replace each of them with a number. Then, we send the tokenized text to the transformer model, which outputs a hidden representation for each word. Finally, we average the representations for each word to get a text-level representation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we tokenize the text. Tokenizing means splitting the text into tokens (a sequence of specific characters that can also be words) and replacing each with a number. Then, we send the tokenized text to the transformer model, which outputs a hidden representation for each word. Finally, we average the representations for each word to get a text-level representation.
```

> First, we tokenize the text. This means that we split the text into tokens, or a sequence of specific characters that can also be words, and replace each of them with a number. Then, we send the tokenized text to the transformer model, which outputs a hidden representation for each word. Finally, we average the representations for each word to get a text-level representation.

Reviewer: maybe few words of what hidden representation is would be useful

Reviewer 2: I have added a short description.

The result is a matrix of shape (number of examples, hidden size). The hidden size is the number of dimensions in the hidden representation. For BERT, the hidden size is 768. The hidden representation is a vector of numbers that represents the text that can be used for many different tasks. In this case, we will use it for classification with [XGBoost](https://github.com/dmlc/xgboost) afterwards.

```python
# Function that transforms a list of texts to their representation
# learned by the transformer.
def text_to_tensor(
   list_text_X_train: list,
   transformer_model: AutoModelForSequenceClassification,
   tokenizer: AutoTokenizer,
   device: str,
) -> numpy.ndarray:
   # Tokenize each text in the list one by one
   tokenized_text_X_train_split = []

> 	tokenized_text_X_train_split = [

Reviewer: Indentation is broken here

Reviewer 2: Fixed it thanks.

		tokenizer.encode(text_x_train, return_tensors="pt")
		for text_x_train in list_text_X_train
	]

   # Send the model to the device
   transformer_model = transformer_model.to(device)
   output_hidden_states_list = [None] * len(tokenized_text_X_train_split)

   for i, tokenized_x in enumerate(tqdm.tqdm(tokenized_text_X_train_split)):
       # Pass the tokens through the transformer model and get the hidden states
       # Only keep the last hidden layer state for now
       output_hidden_states = transformer_model(tokenized_x.to(device), output_hidden_states=True)[
           1
       ][-1]
       # Average over the tokens axis to get a representation at the text level.
       output_hidden_states = output_hidden_states.mean(dim=1)
       output_hidden_states = output_hidden_states.detach().cpu().numpy()
       output_hidden_states_list[i] = output_hidden_states

   return numpy.concatenate(output_hidden_states_list, axis=0)
```

```python
# Let's vectorize the text using the transformer
list_text_X_train = text_X_train.tolist()
list_text_X_test = text_X_test.tolist()

X_train_transformer = text_to_tensor(list_text_X_train, transformer_model, tokenizer, device)

> X_test_transformer = text_to_tensor(list_text_X_test, transformer_model, tokenizer, device)

Reviewer: Using datasets.map here might be faster.

```
X_train_transformer = text_to_tensor(list_text_X_train, transformer_model, tokenizer, device)
```
takes 36 minutes in a Colab for me

Reviewer 2: Yes it's around 0.15s per example on colab/kaggle notebooks with CPU. On kaggle using a GPU (P100)  0.01s per example.

datasets.map would make the logic change quite a lot and I think here we are more interested in the inference times in FHE which makes this pre-processing time negligible.

model = XGBClassifier()

# A gridsearch to find the best parameters
parameters = {
    "n_bits": [2, 3],
    "max_depth": [1],
    "n_estimators": [10, 30, 50],
    "n_jobs": [-1],
}

# Now we have a representation for each tweet, we can train a model on these.
grid_search = GridSearchCV(model, parameters, cv=5, n_jobs=1, scoring="accuracy")
grid_search.fit(X_train_transformer, y_train)

# Check the accuracy of the best model
print(f"Best score: {grid_search.best_score_}")

# Check best hyperparameters
print(f"Best parameters: {grid_search.best_params_}")

# Extract best model
best_model = grid_search.best_estimator_
```

The output is as follows:

```
Best score: 0.8378111718275654
Best parameters: {'max_depth': 1, 'n_bits': 3, 'n_estimators': 50, 'n_jobs': -1}
```

Now, let’s see how the model performs on the test set.

```python

# Compute the metrics on the test set
y_pred = best_model.predict(X_test_transformer)
y_proba = best_model.predict_proba(X_test_transformer)

# Compute and plot the confusion matrix
matrix = confusion_matrix(y_test, y_pred)
ConfusionMatrixDisplay(matrix).plot()

# Compute the accuracy
accuracy_transformer_xgboost = numpy.mean(y_pred == y_test)

> print(f"Accuracy: {accuracy_transformer_xgboost:.4f}")

Reviewer: This code cell is not closed

Reviewer 2: Good catch thanks!

> print(f"Accuracy: {accuracy_transformer_xgboost:.4f}")

Reviewer: What's the output of this?

Reviewer 2: I added the output thanks.

## Predicting over encrypted data

> Now let’s predict over encrypted text. The idea here is that we are going to encrypt the representation given by the transformer rather than the raw text itself. In Concrete-ML you can do this very easily by just setting the parameter `execute_in_fhe=True` in the predict function. This is obviously just a developer feature (mainly used to check the running time of the FHE model). We will see how we can make this work in a deployment setting a bit further down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let’s predict over encrypted text. The idea here is that we will encrypt the representation given by the transformer rather than the raw text itself. In Concrete-ML, you can do this very quickly by setting the parameter `execute_in_fhe=True` in the predict function. This is just a developer feature (mainly used to check the running time of the FHE model). We will see how we can make this work in a deployment setting a bit further down.
```

        <div class="bfc">
            <code>jfrery-zama</code>
            <span class="fullname">Jordan Frery</span>
            <span class="bg-gray-100 dark:bg-gray-700 rounded px-1 text-gray-600 text-sm font-mono">guest</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

It is well-known that a sentiment analysis model determines whether a text is positive, negative, or neutral. However, this process typically requires access to unencrypted text, which can pose privacy concerns.

Homomorphic encryption is a type of encryption that allows for computation on encrypted data without needing to decrypt it first. This makes it well-suited for applications where user's personal and potentially sensitive data is at risk (e.g. sentiment analysis of private messages).

This blog post uses the [Concrete-ML library](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml), allowing data scientists to use machine learning models in homomorphic encryption settings without any prior knowledge of cryptography. We provide a practical tutorial on how to use the library to build a sentiment analysis model on encrypted data.

You can install Concrete-ML library with the following command:

```

> pip install concrete-ml

Reviewer: Do `transformers`, `sklearn` also need to be installed?

Reviewer 2: Sklearn would come with concrete-ml. But datasets and transformers are missing indeed. I am adding them in a proper "setup the environment" section.

---

# Sentiment Analysis on Encrypted Data with Homomorphic Encryption

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published November 2, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/sentiment-analysis-fhe.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/jfrery-zama">
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://huggingface.co/avatars/81a6dd1b89dd988827a2eb944f233000.svg" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>jfrery-zama</code>
            <span class="fullname">Jordan Frery</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

When a client wants to predict whether a specific text contains positive, neutral or negative feedback using a cloud service provider without actually revealing the text during the process, it needs to be done with methods data scientists already master. We can utilize a machine learning model that can predict over encrypted data thanks to the [Concrete-ML library](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml), whose APIs are close to what is already in use by data scientists.

> This notebook tackles sentiment classification with _Fully Homomorphic Encryption_ to help you better grasp how Concrete-ML operates and why it may be the best choice for your specialized needs.

Reviewer 3: I would describe here more what Concrete-ML is, why it's cool, that it's API is close to sklearn etc

Maybe there could be a figure explaining what happens moer visually (i.e. where we see that encrypted data is sent to the cloud, sent back, decrypted)? It would be clearer IMO

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the feedback here. I have added a [link](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/getting-started/cloud) to the documentation where we display the kind of figure you mention. However, I would not put it directly in the blog as it might be a bit intense for people new to cryptography and homomorphic encryption.

Our post will discuss:

- transformers
- how to use transformers with XGBoost to perform sentiment analysis
- how to do the training
- how to use Concrete-ML to turn predictions into predictions over encrypted data
- how to deploy to a client/server protocol

> Last but not least, we’ll finish with a complete demo over [HuggingFace Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) to show this functionality in action.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Last but not least, we’ll finish with a complete demo over [Hugging Face Spaces](https://huggingface.co/spaces) to show this functionality in action.
```

## Using a public dataset

The dataset we use in this notebook can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/crowdflower/twitter-airline-sentiment).

To represent the text for sentiment analysis, we chose to use a transformer hidden representation as it yields high accuracy for the final model in a very efficient way. For a comparison of this representation set against a more common procedure like the TF-IDF approach, please see this [full notebook](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml/blob/release/0.4.x/use_case_examples/encrypted_sentiment_analysis/SentimentClassification.ipynb).

Alright, let’s first import a few requirements.

```python
from sklearn.model_selection import GridSearchCV
import pandas as pd

> from concrete.ml.sklearn import XGBClassifier

Reviewer 3: I would put this import apart visually(currently the import is not used but I think it's an error)

from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
import numpy
import time
```

Now we can open the dataset and visualize some statistics.

```python

> train = pd.read_csv('data/Tweets.csv')

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't force it personally, but maybe

https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v2.6.1/en/loading#csv
https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/v2.6.1/en/package_reference/main_classes#datasets.Dataset.train_test_split

can be used? What do you think?

Reviewer 4: I personally find pandas.read_csv cleaner for simple csv load, when the dataset can fit in the memory and we deal with sklearn based models.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @adrinjalali. The dataset is fairly small and in a single file so I would keep pandas.

text_X = train['text']
y = train['airline_sentiment']

> y = y.replace(['negative', 'neutral', 'positive'], [0, 1, 2])

Reviewer 4: do we need to replace these with numbers? sklearn based models all handle string output using a LabelEncoder internally.

Reviewer 4: Then you could use a [`HistGradientBoostingClassifier`](https://scikit-learn.org/dev/modules/generated/sklearn.ensemble.HistGradientBoostingClassifier.html) which is basically the same algorithm, but handles outputs correctly.

Proportion of negative examples: 62.69%
Proportion of neutral examples: 21.17%
```

The ratio of positive and negative examples is rather similar, though we have significantly more negative examples. Let’s keep this in mind to select the final evaluation metric.

Now we can split our dataset into training and test sets. We will use a seed for this code to ensure it is perfectly reproducible.

```python
text_X_train, text_X_test, y_train, y_test = train_test_split(text_X, y,
    test_size=0.1, random_state=42)
```

## Text representation using a transformer

[Transformers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transformer_(machine_learning_model)) are neural networks often trained to predict the next words to appear in a text (this task is commonly called self-supervised learning). They can also be fine-tuned on some specific subtasks such that they specialize and get better results on a given problem.

They are powerful tools for all kinds of Natural Language Processing tasks. In fact, we can leverage their representation for any text and feed it to a more FHE-friendly, machine learning model for classification. In this notebook we will use XGBoost.

> We start by importing the requirements for transformers. Here, we use the popular library from [HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co) to get a transformer quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We start by importing the requirements for transformers. Here, we use the popular library from [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co) to get a transformer quickly.
```

Author: ah ah, sorry for that

Reviewer 3: To be fair internally people do the same mistake :D

Reviewer 2: Thanks. I have updated.

```python
import torch
import tqdm
from transformers import AutoModelForSequenceClassification, AutoTokenizer
device = "cuda:0" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu"
```

The model we have chosen is a BERT transformer, fine-tuned on the Stanford Sentiment Treebank dataset.

```python
# Load the tokenizer (converts text to tokens)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english")

# Load the pre-trained model

> transformer_model = AutoModelForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained(

Reviewer 3: How would `distilbert-base` do?

Reviewer 2: distilbert-base gives similar results (0.8118 instead of the current 0.8378 with the fine-tuned model) at the cost of a bigger xgboost model. For the sake of the sentiment analysis space demo I would keep the fine-tuned transformer and have a smaller xgboost model.

First, we tokenize the text. This means that we split the text into tokens, or a sequence of specific characters that can also be words, and replace each of them with a number. Then, we send the tokenized text to the transformer model, which outputs a hidden representation for each word. Finally, we average the representations for each word to get a text-level representation.

The result is a matrix of shape (number of examples, hidden size). The hidden size is the number of dimensions in the hidden representation. For BERT, the hidden size is 768. The hidden representation is a vector of numbers that represents the text that can be used for many different tasks. In this case, we will use it for classification with [XGBoost](https://github.com/dmlc/xgboost) afterwards.

```python
# Function that transforms a list of texts to their representation
# learned by the transformer.
def text_to_tensor(
   list_text_X_train: list,
   transformer_model: AutoModelForSequenceClassification,
   tokenizer: AutoTokenizer,
   device: str,
) -> numpy.ndarray:
   # Tokenize each text in the list one by one
   tokenized_text_X_train_split = []

>    for text_x_train in list_text_X_train:
>        tokenized_text_X_train_split.append(tokenizer.encode(text_x_train, return_tensors="pt"))

Reviewer 4: appending to list is very slow, we should pre-allocate the memory and then set the values by index, or in this case, better a list comprehension:

```suggestion
	tokenized_text_X_train_split = [
		tokenizer.encode(text_x_train, return_tensors="pt")
		for text_x_train in list_text_X_train
	]
```

Reviewer 2: Indeed. Thank you!

   # Send the model to the device
   transformer_model = transformer_model.to(device)
   output_hidden_states_list = []

   for tokenized_x in tqdm.tqdm(tokenized_text_X_train_split):
       # Pass the tokens through the transformer model and get the hidden states
       # Only keep the last hidden layer state for now
       output_hidden_states = transformer_model(tokenized_x.to(device), output_hidden_states=True)[
           1
       ][-1]
       # Average over the tokens axis to get a representation at the text level.
       output_hidden_states = output_hidden_states.mean(dim=1)
       output_hidden_states = output_hidden_states.detach().cpu().numpy()

>        output_hidden_states_list.append(output_hidden_states)

Reviewer 4: same here.

Reviewer 2: I updated thanks!

   return numpy.concatenate(output_hidden_states_list, axis=0)
```

```python
# Let's vectorize the text using the transformer
list_text_X_train = text_X_train.tolist()
list_text_X_test = text_X_test.tolist()

X_train_transformer = text_to_tensor(list_text_X_train, transformer_model, tokenizer, device)
X_test_transformer = text_to_tensor(list_text_X_test, transformer_model, tokenizer, device)
```

This transformation of the text (text to transformer representation) would need to be executed on the client machine as the encryption is done over the transformer representation.

## Classifying with XGBoost

Now that we have our training and test sets properly built to train a classifier, next comes the training of our FHE model. Here it will be very straightforward, using a hyper-parameter tuning tool such as GridSearch from scikit-learn.

```python
# Now we have a representation for each tweet, we can train a model on these.

> grid_search = GridSearchCV(model, parameters, cv=3, n_jobs=1, scoring="accuracy")

Reviewer 3: `model` is not defined, is a piece of code missing?

Reviewer 4: `cv=3` is a deprecated old value that shouldn't be used. 5 would be somewhat the minimum value where one can start to have a better confidence on the performance measures and bands.

I also don't see the parameter grid being defined here. Also, if it takes long, one can have a look at `HalvingGridSearchCV`.

Reviewer 2: Yes right some code was missing here for the gridsearch parameters. Adding it back to the blog. cv=5 is fine time wise. I will update.  Thanks!

grid_search.fit(X_train_transformer, y_train)

# Check the accuracy of the best model
print(f"Best score: {grid_search.best_score_}")

# Check best hyperparameters
print(f"Best parameters: {grid_search.best_params_}")

# Extract best model

> best_model = grid_search.best_estimator_

Reviewer 3: Once we have it maybe the rest of this section could be shorten / moved in appendix no? To me we are more interested in the next section and readers could be lost if it is too long

Reviewer 2: Yes I guess that's alright to remove the evaluation/visualization part as it's not the main interest here indeed.

Reviewer 2: Right. I have removed the fancy visualization and left only the test set evaluation.

```

The output is as follows:

```
Best score: 0.8378111718275654
Best parameters: {'max_depth': 1, 'n_bits': 3, 'n_estimators': 50, 'n_jobs': -1}
```

Now, let’s see how the model performs on the test set.

```python
# Compute the metrics for each class

> y_proba = best_model.predict_proba(X_test_transformer)

Reviewer 4: One could use the confusion matrix instead here.

Reviewer 2: I personally prefer a threshold independent metric like the average precision or auc-roc per class. But I can replace or add the confusion matrix here indeed if it is preferable.

Reviewer 2: Ok I have update to use the confusion matrix along with the accuracy as the remaining part of the metric is gone from the blog now. Thanks!

# Compute the accuracy
y_pred = numpy.argmax(y_proba, axis=1)
accuracy_transformer_xgboost = numpy.mean(y_pred == y_test)
print(f"Accuracy: {accuracy_transformer_xgboost:.4f}")

y_pred_positive = y_proba[:, 2]
y_pred_negative = y_proba[:, 0]
y_pred_neutral = y_proba[:, 1]

> ap_positive_transformer_xgboost = average_precision_score((y_test == 2), y_pred_positive)

Reviewer 2: This part has been removed

The output becomes:

```
Compilation time: 9.3354 seconds
FHE inference time: 4.4085 seconds
```

A check that the FHE predictions are the same as the clear predictions is also necessary.

```python
print(f"Probabilities from the FHE inference: {decrypted_proba}")
print(f"Probabilities from the clear model: {clear_proba}")
```

This output reads:

```
Probabilities from the FHE inference: [[0.08434131 0.05571389 0.8599448 ]]
Probabilities from the clear model: [[0.08434131 0.05571389 0.8599448 ]]
```

## Deployment

At this point, our model is fully trained and compiled, ready to be deployed. In Concrete-ML, you can use a [deployment API](https://docs.zama.ai/concrete-ml/advanced-topics/client_server) to do this easily:

```python
# Let's save the model to be pushed to a server later
from concrete.ml.deployment import FHEModelDev

fhe_api = FHEModelDev("sentiment_fhe_model", best_model)
fhe_api.save()
```

These few lines are enough to export all the files needed for both the client and the server. You can check out the notebook explaining this deployment API in detail [here](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml/blob/release/0.4.x/docs/advanced_examples/ClientServer.ipynb).

> ## Full example in an HuggingFace Space

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Full example in an Hugging Face Space
```

> You can also have a look at the [final application on HuggingFace Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/zama-fhe/encrypted_sentiment_analysis). The client app was developed with [Gradio](https://gradio.app/) while the server runs with [Uvicorn](https://www.uvicorn.org/) and was developed with [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also have a look at the [final application on Hugging Face Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/zama-fhe/encrypted_sentiment_analysis). The client app was developed with [Gradio](https://gradio.app/) while the server runs with [Uvicorn](https://www.uvicorn.org/) and was developed with [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/).
```

Reviewer 2: Updated

The process is as follows:

- User generates a new private/public key

![Alt text](assets/sentiment-analysis-fhe/genkey.jpg "key generation")

- User types a message that will be encoded, quantized, and encrypted

![Alt text](assets/sentiment-analysis-fhe/encode.jpg "encoding, quantization and encryption")

- Server receives the encrypted data and starts the prediction over encrypted data, using the public evaluation key
- Server sends back the encrypted predictions and the client can decrypt them using his private key

![Alt text](assets/sentiment-analysis-fhe/decrypt.jpg "decryption")

> 

Reviewer 3: Could there be a section about the HF Hub? I know currently it's not really meaningful to have small models on the Hub (can just be retrained), but could we host FHE-friendly models on the Hub and load them? Some people at HF work with sklearn models cc @adrinjalali

Reviewer 4: We can put this whole model in a `sklearn.Pipeline` and then pickle the pipeline and put it on the hub, in which case we can then have the widgets and the inference API working for it. [`skops`](https://skops.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) can help you do that. But you need a scikit-learn compatible wrapper for transformers, which `skorch` provides AFAIK (cc @BenjaminBossan )

Reviewer 5: I didn't follow along everything, but it looks like fine-tuning a transformer for text classification. [This notebook](https://github.com/skorch-dev/skorch/blob/master/notebooks/Hugging_Face_Finetuning.ipynb) demonstrates how to do that in skorch, resulting in a model with sklearn API. Whether it would _just work_ with inference API, I don't know.

Reviewer 2: Sorry I forgot to answer here indeed.

Our models are built using [Concrete-ML](https://github.com/zama-ai/concrete-ml) and once the model is built, contains Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) artifacts that prevents us from using pickle. Also I think the point is allowing users to do inference using FHE so extracting the xgboost model only without FHE capabilities does not make much sense I believe.

Also our current way of saving models and running inference (in FHE) is very specific. Probably we would want Concrete-ML in the libraries supported by HF hub (https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/models-libraries).

This latter would be very interesting to allow prediction over encrypted data with HF inference API.

Reviewer 2: Yes you are right. We will look into allowing pickle on our models as it is a very common choice for data scientist to save their model.

For now we use a serialization that is specific to a client/server protocol so that we can make it clear what part of the model is for the client (encryption cryptographic quantization parameters so basically pre-processing) and server (the model converted to a fully homomorphic circuit that allows prediction on encryped data).
